year one is a restoration parts
manufacturer and retailer that likes to
get involved and they just hosted the
year one experience a weekend long event
with something for everyone
the guys at year one put together an
event every year where they are two
different places one is Atlanta driveway
which is where we are in commerce
Georgia and right down the road there at
Road Atlanta it's a road course that's
you know it's amazing it's a really cool
looking event they've got a whole bunch
of show cars out there street cars the
ORS CAS here
we bought our streetcar Biscayne to have
a little fun with and we're going to
tear up this weekend just for fun nick
has been tuning his buddy's 1966 best
game to be a true Street sleeper the car
that doesn't look anywhere near as fast
as it really is
they let us make a few exhibition passes
on the drag strip at Atlanta drag way
well it spun the tires a little bit
we're gonna I think we're wearing them
do is put a little bit less nitrous in
the first stage of nitrous and take a
little air pressure on the tires and see
if it makes a difference he did say the
first stage of nitrous this biscayne is
powered by a 540 cubic inch big block
chevy built by fast x motor works try to
get the flattest footprint that you can
get so if you lower the air pressure
from the car leaves hopefully the Tyrol
lay flat to the ground as good as
possible
oh he just got back from a run and
defended 66 at about 132 miles an hour I
was hoping for a little bit more but
unfortunately when I floored on the
starting line and spun the tires real
bad I got out of it got in it one more
time considering you know we're talking
a 4340 400 car that it's totally
streetable their mid 10 seconds in the
quarter mile is very respectable and the
Biscayne caught the eye of car craft
magazine's Jeff Smith nick has a as a
reputation for building cars that are
large big heavy cars impalas vist canes
and stuff like that and it's a neat car
because it's not your normal Camaros
Chevelle nova deal it's a it's a big car
with a big motor but yet it doesn't look
like it and they drive it on the street
all the time that's the best part about
it it's not a single-purpose car the
motor and trans that's in this car was
actually in Impella than i built years
ago to race I'm starting to drive across
country for hot rod magazine in their
power tour car got 12 miles to the
gallon going from one end of the country
to the other yeah which is you know big
inch motor a little bit of nitrous and a
chassis that works I mean that you which
is what's easier than that it's truly a
situation where you know you can make a
ton of power but if it doesn't hook up
it's really kind of useless so you end
up spin the tires halfway down the track
and it's really not safe so guys worked
on on making the thing hook it's real
simple you look under the rear
suspension there's very little to it and
yet it works and they've worked on the
power and then you gradually increase
the power as you can increase the
traction and stuff on it they've widened
the rear wheel well a little bit to fit
a bigger tire and you know you make it
stick and then plant the nitrous to it
so you know and and and five hundred
forty eight inches don't hurt
one of the tricks Nick used to increase
the bits gains traction was to shorten
the instant center length instant Center
is the imaginary point where the lower
and upper rear control arms would meet
if they were long enough by elevating
the upper control arm mount you change
the geometry and shorten the instant
center length it basically makes the
triangulation shorter this reduces the
control arms leverage and plants the
tires and a more aggressive manner on
the track it really does everything you
could you could ever ask for from a tank
basically another freak of nature in
cars this big just were never meant to
go this fast you know when people would
see these cars they would always you
know correlate them to being driven by a
grandma to church on Sundays well she
went to church on Sundays and this to
she'd get there pretty fast I think
Nick's days run 1060 432 and then it
it's capable of going quicker I know if
you put a little more squeeze to it so I
very impressive for a real heavy car you
know you don't look at this and think
that's a 10-second car you know and
there's gonna be guys out there with
much lighter cars going
now the cool part about a car like this
is that it it's so simple I mean if you
look inside of it there's not a single
gauge in it except for the ones that
came from GM the speedometer in a gas
gauge no play about to do there's
nothing else to shoot
there's no roll bar you know no fire no
seatbelt restraints like that on race
cars it's got the standard seatbelts on
it you're used to seeing interior shots
with you know gauges and shifters and
and stuff and there isn't anything here
now the not so cool part is that it just
got done run in ten 60s you know promote
from the legality standpoint they can
only go so fast the car doesn't have a
roll bar in it and that kind of stuff
but still it's fun you know and it looks
like your mom's grocery it